[MUSIC]
>> Nina Zakharenko: So we're back, and
we're going to talk about the server
side component of this app.
And right now it's kind of funny,
we're running the client and
the server on our own computers.
When you guys are gonna put
something out there you're
probably not gonna wanted to do that.
You're gonna want to find
some web hosting, for
example Heroku does a great job with this.
They make it really easy for beginners.
So your server will be somewhere else and
you'll have lots of clients
connecting to your server which
will be running code like this.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
this Var express and var app,
is something that you've already seen.
This var bodyParser is
something called middleware,
for the sake of time,
I'm not going to talk about it.
It's a little bit outside of
the scope of this class, but
it kind of helps us parse some of
the input that we're going to be getting.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So here are some
tweets that we've prepopulated.
So if you kill your server and start it
back up, these guys will always be here,
these tweets and
that's because they're actually in memory.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If you create
new Tweets in your app and
you kill your server,
those Tweets are gonna get wiped out.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So let's go over the
anatomy of these Tweets for just a second.
So we see our square brackets here,
that means it's a list of Tweets.
These tweets are objects, but unlike
we've seen before they don't have names.
We don't have to give them names,
they just live in this list.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So we have
a text property and a time property.
And this new keyword is a not
something that we've seen before, so
I'm just going to quickly
cover what that does.
By calling new Date, you're creating
a new instance of the date object.
So what this will give back to you is
an object with a bunch of properties
that knows the time in this
very instance right now.
Calling getTime on this object
will give you back the number
of milliseconds since January 1, 1970.
And the reason we're subtracting
from this time is because
if we go back to our tweets app,
we see this timestamp here.
And we want people to think that we've had
some staggering in between our tweets.
So here we see there's just a few
seconds difference in each one of these.
Whoops.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And this minus
time is what produces those different
timestamps on the front end.
So here,
we're telling express to use this static
directory called public, and _ _dirname.
It's something that is given to us for
free in every node file.
Basically it's telling us what's the
directory that this file is running in.
There is another, I don't know if
built-in is the right word for
it but you get it for
free, is _ _ filename.
So if you ever need to know what
the file is called, dynamically,
you can just use that variable
anywhere in your node files.
And node will be able to tell
you what that filename is.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
let's talk about this app.get method.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Do you guys have
any questions about HTTP verbs?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Does everyone get,
ha ha, get what get means?
>> Nina Zakharenko: So we're just asking
the server, just give me what's here.
I don't have any input for you,
I'm not trying to pass anything back.
I have a URL and you have a file I want,
so just give it back here.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Here, we're setting
the response type, we're telling
the server, I'm sorry, the client
that the server is sending back json.
And what we're gonna be sending back is
JSON.stringify of our list of tweets.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So when this
page loads, we're calling that GET
method we're getting back the data and
displaying it on this page.
And we should be able to
go to localhost:8080/ajax,
and there, we just get back our JSON.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Does
anyone have questions?
>> Nina Zakharenko: So this post
here is the most interesting part
of our whole little app.
And that's because as a browser,
when someone
types in here we're hitting our server and
we're hitting that post endpoint.
So we get some text,
we make a brand new tweet.
And here in the text we
say request.body.tweet.
And that's because what our browser's
sending us is JSON looks
kind of like this.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So that's what
the client is sending back to the server,
that's what the server is working with.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So we're saying
the text is request.body.tweet and
the time just a new Date.
So we want that tweet to be saved
in our system as getting created
right now in this very instance.
So we talked about array.push yesterday.
So what this line of code right here
is doing, tweets.push(newTweet),
is adding not tweet on to
the end of our tweets list.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So,
this list is getting bigger and
bigger every time someone inputs
some text on our webpage.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So right here,
we're telling the client,
hey, we got your information,
I'm just gonna print out what I saved.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Does anyone have
questions about what's going on here?
>> Nina Zakharenko: So basically this list
of Tweets is getting bigger and bigger and
bigger.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
that's the mechanics of our Tweeter.
I think Brian and
I have a million dollar idea here,
so you guys better not steal it.
Come after you with lawyers.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Anyone, questions,
questions about how
this all fits together?
>> Nina Zakharenko: You guys
all look hungry and tired.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Hello,
Tweet about some food.
So that's all that Brian and I have
unless, Brian, do you wanna add anything?
So this is us.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Nina Zakharenko: We are on Twitter,
I'm on Twitter @nnja,
Brian is @holtbt, and
if you guys have any questions,
feel free to tweet at us.
It's probably the fastest way
that you'll get back a response.
It was really a pleasure
working with you all.
So, thank you very much.